## Step 3: Vagrantfile Basics

In this step, take a look at the default `Vagrantfile` that was created and understand its structure.

1. Open the Vagrantfile with vim to view its contents. If you are unfamiliar with vim that is fine. We are leveraging it simply to view the file with color syntax highlighting. (Though the syntax highlighting is missing from the web-based view below.)

    ```bash
    [root@devbox vagrant_explore]# vim Vagrantfile
    ```

    1. Navigate up and down the file within vim by using the `j` key to move down a line, and `k` key to move up a line. Quit and exit vim by pressing the `:` key and enter `q!` followed by pressing **Enter**.

1. At the very top of the file you'll find the following line. This indicates that Vagrant is a Ruby application, and that the Vagrantfile is written using Ruby syntax. Have no fear if you are not a Ruby programmer, you can very easily read and customize the Vagrantfile without any Ruby experience.

    ```bash
    # -*- mode: ruby -*-
    ```    

1. Throughout the file you'll find comment lines that begin with a `#`. These are informational elements of the Vagrantfile provided to give guidance on the common customizations you may need to do. Details on how to add network adapters, port forwarding, VM memory size, and more are all included. In later labs we'll explore more of these settings.

1. In fact, nearly the entire file is commented lines, with the only lines that are active are the following. In the whole file, only those three lines are needed to bring up the development environment. These lines tell Vagrant to configure a new VM using the base box `hasicorp/precise64`. All other configuration of the environment use the defaults from Vagrant and VirtualBox.

    ```bash
    Vagrant.configure("2") do |config|
      config.vm.box = "hashicorp/precise64"
    end
    ```

#### Next Step: Summary    
