# Using the Ansible Provisioner with Vagrant

In this lab you learn how you can automatically configure the network devices in your Vagrant environment. By combining Ansible with Vagrant, you provide a baseline configuration on top of the default box image.

## Objectives

The objective of this lab is to:

* Learn about the purpose of provisioners with Vagrant
* Adding provisioners to your Vagrantfile to execute Ansible Playbooks
* Understand how to create an Ansible Playbook and related configuration
* Start, explore, and destroy an environment provisioned with Ansible

## Prerequisites

In order to complete this lab you need a development workstation with Vagrant and other tools installed.

The recommendation is to leverage the [DevBox DevNet Sandbox](https://devnetsandbox.cisco.com/RM/Diagram/Index/f1a51f3b-3377-444d-97f0-5ad300d976be?diagramType=Topology) which has all the pre-requisites installed and ready to go so you can immediately begin the lab.

As an alternative you can leverage your own workstation for the lab, but you'll need to follow the steps listed in the ***Setup your own computer*** information at the top of the lab.

### Windows Workstation Note

This lab leverages a script and utility that require either a Linux or OS X workstation to complete successfully. If you are executing this lab on your own Windows workstation you will need to perform this lab in an alternative environment. A great option is to use the  [DevBox DevNet Sandbox](https://devnetsandbox.cisco.com/RM/Diagram/Index/f1a51f3b-3377-444d-97f0-5ad300d976be?diagramType=Topology) for this lab.

### Using the DevBox Sandbox

1. Reserve an instance of the Sandbox by navigating to the [DevBox Sandbox](https://devnetsandbox.cisco.com/RM/Diagram/Index/f1a51f3b-3377-444d-97f0-5ad300d976be?diagramType=Topology) page. Because some of the labs in this module build upon earlier labs, you should reserve your sandbox for long enough that you'll be able to complete all labs in this module.
1. Once your Sandbox is fully provisioned you'll be sent an email with the VPN credentials to connect to your sandbox. Connect to your environment using either AnyConnect or OpenConnect.
1. You can leverage either SSH or RDP to connect to the DevBox at the address of 10.10.20.20 with credentials of root/cisco123.

### Your Own Workstation

1. Click the link at the top of the page for "Setup your own computer".
1. Follow the setup details to install and configure all the prerequisites needed for the labs in this module.

### Learning Labs to Complete First

It is recommended that you complete the labs in this module in order. Before beginning this lab please complete:

* Vagrant 101
* Creating Cisco Network Device Vagrant Boxes
  * **Note: This lab requires that you have already created a Vagrant Box for a Nexus 9000v as detailed in this lab.**  
* Your first `vagrant up` of a Network Device
* Multi-Node Vagrant Environments

## Environment Clean-Up Check

Before beginning this lab, make sure you don't have any Vagrant environments still running from previous labs or steps.

1. Run `vagrant global-status` to view the status of any active environments.

    ```bash
    [root@devbox coding]# vagrant global-status

    id       name    provider   state   directory
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    8d1eaec  default virtualbox saved   /root/coding/learning_lab_vagrant_netprog_code/lab01
    91eae66  default virtualbox running /root/coding/learning_lab_vagrant_netprog_code/lab02
    ```

1. If you have any environments listed as `running`, you should either `suspend` or `destroy` them before continuing. You need to provide the `id` field following the command to indicate which environment you are targeting. For example:

    ```bash
    # To suspend an environment
    [root@devbox coding]# vagrant suspend 91eae66

    # To Destroy an environment
    [root@devbox coding]# vagrant destroy 91eae66
    ```

    * *Note: You only need to provide enough characters in the ID field to uniquely identify an environment.*

## Step 1: Understanding Vagrant Provisioners

Vagrant [provisioners](https://www.vagrantup.com/intro/getting-started/provisioning.html) were developed to allow software developers to maintain a very minimal set of boxes that could be used across projects by allowing developers to specify customizations to be automatically applied to VMs once they are up and running during the `vagrant up` process.

Typical customizations include the installation of software packages, altering operating system configuration, copying in application code to the environment, and running generic commands. Vagrant supports several types of provisioning including:

* Running shell scripts (example: bash scripts)
* Configuration Management tools (examples: Ansible, Puppet, Chef)
* Container deployment (example: Docker)

In this lab you see how you can leverage Ansible provisioning to configure the network devices in the development environment.

#### Next Step: Adding Ansible Provisioning to the Vagrantfile  
