# Creating Cisco Network Device Vagrant Boxes

Before you can do your first `vagrant up` on a switch or router environment, you need to have the Vagrant box to act as the template. In this lab we'll look at how you can generate boxes for IOS XE, Open NX-OS, and IOS XR leveraging resources available for download by Cisco.

> Note: Some of the downloads require your CCO account to have the proper entitlements and service contracts associated to your account. If you lack the entitlement for one of the downloads, please contact your Cisco Partner or Account team to ensure you have the correct service contracts associated to your CCO account.

## Objectives

The objective of this lab is to:

* Locate and leverage available resources for creating Vagrant boxes
* Create a Vagrant Box for an Open NX-OS Device

## Prerequisites

To complete this lab you need a development workstation with Vagrant and other tools installed.

The recommendation is to leverage the [DevBox DevNet Sandbox](https://devnetsandbox.cisco.com/RM/Diagram/Index/f1a51f3b-3377-444d-97f0-5ad300d976be?diagramType=Topology) which has all the pre-requisites installed so you can immediately begin the lab.

As an alternative you can leverage your own workstation for the lab, but you need to follow the steps listed in the ***Setup your own computer*** information at the top of the lab.

### Windows Workstation Note

This lab includes some optional exercises that leverages a script and utility that require either a Linux or OS X workstation to complete successfully.  If you are executing this lab on your own Windows workstation, and wish to complete those exercises, you will need to perform them in an alternative environment.  

A great option is to use the  [DevBox DevNet Sandbox](https://devnetsandbox.cisco.com/RM/Diagram/Index/f1a51f3b-3377-444d-97f0-5ad300d976be?diagramType=Topology) for this lab.  

### Using the DevBox Sandbox

1. Reserve an instance of the Sandbox by navigating to the [DevBox DevNet Sandbox](https://devnetsandbox.cisco.com/RM/Diagram/Index/f1a51f3b-3377-444d-97f0-5ad300d976be?diagramType=Topology) page. Because some of the labs in this module build upon earlier labs, you should reserve your sandbox for long enough that you'll be able to complete all labs in this module.
1. Once your Sandbox is fully provisioned you'll be sent an email with the VPN credentials to connect to your sandbox. Connect to your environment using either AnyConnect or OpenConnect.
1. You can leverage either SSH or RDP to connect to the DevBox at the address of 10.10.20.20 with credentials of root/cisco123.

### Your Own Workstation

1. Click the link at the top of the page for "Setup your own computer".
1. Follow the setup details to install and configure all the prerequisites needed for the labs in this module.

### Learning Labs to Complete First

It is recommended that you complete the labs in this module in order. Before beginning this lab please complete:

* Vagrant 101

## Environment Clean-Up Check

Before beginning this lab, let's make sure you don't have any Vagrant environments still running from previous labs or steps.

1. Run `vagrant global-status` to view the status of any active environments.

    ```bash
    [root@devbox coding]# vagrant global-status

    id       name    provider   state   directory
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    8d1eaec  default virtualbox saved   /root/coding/learning_lab_vagrant_netprog_code/lab01
    91eae66  default virtualbox running /root/coding/learning_lab_vagrant_netprog_code/lab02
    ```

1. If you have any environments listed as `running`, you should either `suspend` or `destroy` them before continuing. You need to provide the `id` field following the command to indicate which environment you are targeting. For example:

    ```bash
    # To suspend an environment
    [root@devbox coding]# vagrant suspend 91eae66

    # To destroy an environment
    [root@devbox coding]# vagrant destroy 91eae66
    ```

    * *Note: You only need to provide enough characters in the ID field to uniquely identify an environment.*

#### Next: Downloading Nexus 9000v Box from Cisco
