# Your first `vagrant up` of a Network Device

In this lab you put the freshly-created Nexus 9000v Vagrant Box from the previous lab to use and explore how Vagrant can help you explore network programmability in a simple, portable environment.

## Objectives

The objective of this lab is to:

* Initialize and customize a Vagrantfile for a Network Device
* Start and explore an Open NX-OS Vagrant Environment
* Destroy your environment when complete

## Prerequisites

To complete this lab you need a development workstation with Vagrant and other tools installed.

The recommendation is to leverage the [DevBox DevNet Sandbox](https://devnetsandbox.cisco.com/RM/Diagram/Index/f1a51f3b-3377-444d-97f0-5ad300d976be?diagramType=Topology) which has all the pre-requisites installed and ready to go so you can immediately begin the lab.

As an alternative you can leverage your own workstation for the lab, but you'll need to follow the steps listed in the "***Setup your own computer***" information at the top of the lab.

### Using the DevBox Sandbox

1. Reserve an instance of the Sandbox by navigating to the [DevBox Sandbox](https://devnetsandbox.cisco.com/RM/Diagram/Index/f1a51f3b-3377-444d-97f0-5ad300d976be?diagramType=Topology) page. Because some of the labs in this module build upon earlier labs, you should reserve your sandbox for long enough that you'll be able to complete all labs in this module.
1. Once your Sandbox is fully provisioned you'll be sent an email with the VPN credentials to connect to your sandbox. Connect to your environment using either AnyConnect or OpenConnect.
1. You can leverage either SSH or RDP to connect to the DevBox at the address of 10.10.20.20 with credentials of root/cisco123.

### Your Own Workstation

1. Click the link at the top of the page for "Setup your own computer".
1. Follow the setup details to install and configure all the prerequisites needed for the labs in this module.

### Learning Labs to Complete First

It is recommended that you complete the labs in this module in order. Before beginning this lab please complete:

* Vagrant 101
* Creating Cisco Network Device Vagrant Boxes
  * **Note: This lab requires that you have already created a Vagrant Box for a Nexus 9000v as detailed in this lab.**  

## Environment Clean-Up Check

Before beginning this lab, let's make sure you don't have any Vagrant environments still running from previous labs or steps.

1. Run `vagrant global-status` to view the status of any active environments.

    ```bash
    [root@devbox coding]# vagrant global-status

    id       name    provider   state   directory
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
    8d1eaec  default virtualbox saved   /root/coding/learning_lab_vagrant_netprog_code/lab01
    91eae66  default virtualbox running /root/coding/learning_lab_vagrant_netprog_code/lab02
    ```

1. If you have any environments listed as `running`, you should either `suspend` or `destroy` them before continuing. You need to provide the `id` field following the command to indicate which environment you are targeting. For example:

    ```bash
    # To suspend an environment
    [root@devbox coding]# vagrant suspend 91eae66

    # To Destroy an environment
    [root@devbox coding]# vagrant destroy 91eae66
    ```

    * *Note: You only need to provide enough characters in the ID field to uniquely identify an environment.*

## Step 1: Initializing a New Environment

1. Before starting this lab, you need to clone down the code samples repository that accompanies these learning labs.

    ```bash
    [root@devbox box_building]# cd ~
    [root@devbox ~]# cd coding/
    [root@devbox coding]# git clone https://github.com/CiscoDevNet/learning_lab_vagrant_netprog_code

    Cloning into 'learning_lab_vagrant_netprog_code'...
    remote: Counting objects: 3, done.
    remote: Total 3 (delta 0), reused 3 (delta 0), pack-reused 0
    Unpacking objects: 100% (3/3), done.

    [root@devbox coding]# cd learning_lab_vagrant_netprog_code/

    [root@devbox learning_lab_vagrant_netprog_code]# ls
    lab01  lab02  lab03  README.md
    ```

1. Enter the `lab01` directory.

    ```bash
    [root@devbox learning_lab_vagrant_netprog_code]# cd lab01
    ```

1. Initialize a new environment with `vagrant init`.

    ```bash
    [root@devbox lab01]# vagrant init nxos/7.0.3.I6.1
    A `Vagrantfile` has been placed in this directory. You are now
    ready to `vagrant up` your first virtual environment! Please read
    the comments in the Vagrantfile as well as documentation on
    `vagrantup.com` for more information on using Vagrant.
    ```

#### Next Step: Customizing the Vagrantfile
