## Step 2: Customizing the Vagrantfile

Before we startup the environment, let's make some customizations to the Vagrantfile.

1. Open the Vagrantfile with a text editor like `vim` or `nano`. If you are new to these text editors, we suggest `nano` as it is much simpler to get started with than `vim`.

    ```bash
    [root@devbox lab01]# nano Vagrantfile
    ```

1. The second block of comments following the `config.vm.box` line provides an example on how you could create a port mapping (PAT) from the VM to the host machine. This can be helpful to expose API interfaces or other services from within your environment to your host machine.

    ```ruby
      # Create a forwarded port mapping which allows access to a specific port
      # within the machine from a port on the host machine. In the example below,
      # accessing "localhost:8080" will access port 80 on the guest machine.
      # NOTE: This will enable public access to the opened port
      # config.vm.network "forwarded_port", guest: 80, host: 8080
    ```

    1. Under that comment block, add the following line to the configuration. This line forwards port 80 to port 2224 on your local workstation. It also labels it with the friendly name "http". This allows access to NX-API on our Open NX-OS switch once the feature is enabled.
        * *Note: Ruby is **not** whitespace sensitive. This means that indentation of lines is not critical to processing and used solely to make it easier for the developer and readers.*

        ```ruby
        config.vm.network :forwarded_port, guest: 80, host: 2224, id: 'http'
        ```

1. Continue reading the Vagrantfile until you see the following block of text. This provides details on how you could add additional network interface links to your VM. This is particularly useful for network devices and Vagrant because network devices with a single interface are not the typical use case.

    ```ruby
      # Create a private network, which allows host-only access to the machine
      # using a specific IP.
      # config.vm.network "private_network", ip: "192.168.33.10"
    ```

    1. VirtualBox supports up 4 network adapters per virtual machine. The first adapter is managed by Vagrant automatically and configured for NAT access and used for management access via SSH to the VMs. Additional adapters added will correspond to the first available interface names on the platform.
        * *Note: On a n9000v this would mean `Ethernet1/1`, `Ethernet1/2`, and `Ethernet1/3` if three additional interfaces are added.*
        * *Note: On an IOS XE (CSR1000v) based image, `GigabitEthernet1` is used for management so additional interfaces would begin with `GigabitEthernet2`.*
1. Under that comment block, add the following two lines to the configuration. These add 2 additional virtual network links to the environment. The first link is connected to a VirtualBox internal virtual network called "link1" and the second to one called "link2".
    * You can think of these networks like port-groups from vSphere. If were were to connect other VMs to these same virtual networks, they would be "layer 2 adjacent". This is useful in environments with multiple network devices, or server VMs connected to the network to pass data.

    ```bash
      config.vm.network :private_network, virtualbox__intnet: "link1", auto_config: false
      config.vm.network :private_network, virtualbox__intnet: "link2", auto_config: false
    ```

1. Save the file and exit nano by pressing `Control+O` to "WriteOut" (i.e. Save), followed by `Control+X` to "Exit".

> Note: A completed version of the Vagrantfile with all suggested changes is in the lab01 folder and called Vagrantfile.solution. You can use this file to compare and validate your changes, or just use it by copying it over your Vagrantfile with the command: `cp Vagrantfile.solution Vagrantfile`.

#### Next Step: Starting the Vagrant Environment
